good morning everybody I'm Ryan with
American musical supply here with our
friend Al John it Gibson we're gonna go
over some of the new stuff with you
today starting with mini tune and we're
gonna kind of bounce around a little bit
so try to keep up he's not gonna go too
slow but take it away buddy so we've got
this brand new mini tune system that
we're debuting 2013 it's awesome all
that robot technology we've been talking
about over the past six years has now
been miniaturized into this neat little
package right here right in the back of
the headstock and it's an option you can
get for just a little bit of extra width
a lot of our new Gibson USA models not a
whole lot so as you can see these tuners
you can rotate tune the guitar manually
it's very simple but what is really cool
is right back here this new compact mini
tune system this polymer lithium ion
battery that I'm removing right now is
good for 80 to 100 tunings it comes with
a charger so you can simply just insert
it here then to activate the unit and
you only tune itself when you turn it on
so you turn it on right here and then
you can select whatever preset you want
this Redbank right here has six
different presets from the factory
the green one has another six open
tunings and then you have a blue bank
here that you can program your own
tunings so right now I'm going to go
ahead and select let's say dadgad right
here and the Red Bank all I do is press
this joypad right there in the center
after selecting my tuning preset you can
see the gears moving and it moves very
quickly to that tuning then you do a
fine tuning adjustment by simply
strumming on the guitar and the sensors
here pick up the vibrations measure it
and tell the different tuners how how
much they need to turn okay right now I
need to just fine-tune this e it's kind
of difficult while I'm holding the
guitar in this fashion so you can see it
yourself
what would normally take minutes to do
now it just takes a matter of seconds
so there you go and it turns itself off
just simply like that now I want to go
ahead and go back into standard mode
standard tuning and the first preset is
that biggy they're selected with a
joypad hit enter and once again it'll go
to its tuning and then I'm going to
simply strum it then you can see here I
just need to pluck these strings here
and then there you go so I went in just
a matter of seconds between dadgad Led
Zeppelin style tuning to standard tuning
a matter of minutes
string changes are also done just as
easily all you have to do is take the
tuning capstan here these are locking
tuners simply spool your string up clamp
it down cut off the excess and there's a
string up and string down mode so I
don't have to spend that tedious time
either manually rotating it trying to
twist it in the in the in the tune I can
simply just press this button and it'll
do that for me so that's a string up and
string down mode very convenient very
simple and as you can see here there are
no other added buttons or knobs on the
guitar itself this is a Les Paul future
tribute I'm just part of our tribute
series and as you can see here it's a
great gold top looking guitar but there
are no wires or anything going up and
down the neck no control knob here to
pull and it's all self-contained right
here in the back of the headstock and
it's literally you know just a couple
hundred dollars extra on top of the
different models that you choose from
Gibson USA so this is the brand new mini
tune it's available right now at
American musical supply so go ahead pick
one up today